twitter-api-ruby-tutorial.md, before:

Note: this tutorial is written using Github Flavored Markdown (GFM) for clarity (and usefulness).

# Getting started with the Twitter API using Ruby

## A simple tutorial, providing code and context.

### Some assumptions

* Ruby is installed and functional
* The twitter gem is ~ version 5.11.0
* You have [registered](https://dev.twitter.com/apps) your new app with Twitter

### Getting started, installing the Twitter Ruby Gem and calling the Twitter Rest API

First thing you need to do: install the [Twitter Ruby Gem](http://twitter.rubyforge.org/).

Then open your terminal and type:

    sudo gem install twitter

If everything works fine you will get a message after fetching and installing the gem is done. The latest version of this gem at the time of writing was twitter-5.11.0.

We will now create a simple file to get started. Create a file called twitter.rb with the following lines:

```ruby
require 'twitter'

config = {
  consumer_key: "API-KEY",
  consumer_secret: "API-SECRET"
}

client = Twitter::REST::Client.new(config)
puts client.status(167309659198328832).text
 ```
Save it (duh). When you excute twitter.rb, you will get the tweet with ID "167309659198328832" in your terminal output. It's a message from @twitterapi, check http://twitter.com/twitterapi/status/167309659198328832 to compare both. 

Now that we know that everything is working, let's move to the next level. We will explore the main concepts of the Twitter Rest API and of building Twitter applications.

<style "display:none">TODO: add troubleshooting tips</style>

### Understanding the main concepts

Twitter APIs (yes, there is more than one to account for different programming languages) are documented [here](https://dev.twitter.com/docs). That's a lot of material, but it might be difficult at first to piece together all the information you need, hence this more "procedural" tutorial. Once you walk through the steps here, you will have a better idea of what you should be searching for in all the available documentation.

### Notes

#### What is OAuth, how does it work?

Who cares? If you're a beginner, read a few lines on the [wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oauth) then don't worry about it for now.

#### Understanding the rate limitation

Twitter enforces a rate limit for third party apps which restricts the number of Twitter API requests that can be performed within the app for each user account. An API request can be thought of as a single Twitter operation, such as refreshing a timeline or sending a tweet.

**tl;dr** – don't send a bunch of requests in a short period of time.

Commit message:

Add auth key and token to config hash. Remove non-working example ruby script.

twitter-api-ruby-tutorial.md, after:

Note: this tutorial is written using Github Flavored Markdown (GFM) for clarity (and usefulness).

# Getting started with the Twitter API using Ruby

## A simple tutorial, providing code and context.

### Some assumptions

* Ruby is installed and functional
* The twitter gem is ~ version 5.11.0
* You have [registered](https://dev.twitter.com/apps) your new app with Twitter

### Getting started, installing the Twitter Ruby Gem and calling the Twitter Rest API

First thing you need to do: install the [Twitter Ruby Gem](http://twitter.rubyforge.org/).

Then open your terminal and type:

    sudo gem install twitter

If everything works fine you will get a message after fetching and installing the gem is done. The latest version of this gem at the time of writing was twitter-5.11.0.

We will now create a simple file to get started. Create a file called twitter.rb with the following lines:

```ruby
require 'twitter'

client = Twitter::REST::Client.new do |config|
  config.consumer_key        = "YOUR_CONSUMER_KEY"
  config.consumer_secret     = "YOUR_CONSUMER_SECRET"
  config.access_token        = "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN"
  config.access_token_secret = "YOUR_ACCESS_SECRET"
end

puts client.status(167309659198328832).text
 ```
Save it (duh). When you excute twitter.rb, you will get the tweet with ID "167309659198328832" in your terminal output. It's a message from @twitterapi, check http://twitter.com/twitterapi/status/167309659198328832 to compare both. 

Now that we know that everything is working, let's move to the next level. We will explore the main concepts of the Twitter Rest API and of building Twitter applications.

<style "display:none">TODO: add troubleshooting tips</style>

### Understanding the main concepts

Twitter APIs (yes, there is more than one to account for different programming languages) are documented [here](https://dev.twitter.com/docs). That's a lot of material, but it might be difficult at first to piece together all the information you need, hence this more "procedural" tutorial. Once you walk through the steps here, you will have a better idea of what you should be searching for in all the available documentation.

### Notes

#### What is OAuth, how does it work?

Who cares? If you're a beginner, read a few lines on the [wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oauth) then don't worry about it for now.

#### Understanding the rate limitation

Twitter enforces a rate limit for third party apps which restricts the number of Twitter API requests that can be performed within the app for each user account. An API request can be thought of as a single Twitter operation, such as refreshing a timeline or sending a tweet.

**tl;dr** – don't send a bunch of requests in a short period of time.

#### Twitter for Mac Developer Console

Use the Developer Console that comes with the Twitter for Mac app to test API calls.
